now at least one driver has been killed
when the Israeli Army opened fire at Aid
trucks at the Kuwaiti roundabout in Gaza
City and that's the intersection on the
main road linking North and South Gaza
let's get more on this from hanni Mahmud
who joins us now from Rafa in southern
Gaza so Han what happened during this
Convoy of trucks and how come one driver
is
[Music]
dead yes well this is not the first time
we're seeing the delivered attacks on
aided trucks or Aid Seekers or
humanitarian uh Aid workers on the
ground and just to give a little bit of
context this Kuwaiti traffic circle is
controlled by the Israeli military there
is a heavy presence of Israeli tanks and
armored vehicles there are ground forces
at the vicinity of the area and uh
normally what we're seeing right now
trucks that are allowed into the
northern part in Gaza City had to get a
special coordination and permit from the
Israeli military at the track traffic
circle itself now what happened as soon
as these group of a trucks were
approaching the Kuwait traffic circle
where heavy of gun fire that was open on
the trucks one driver was reported
killed right away there are several
other injuries who were uh at the sight
of the uh uh gun shot on the gunfire for
at least couple hours before paramedics
and civil defense crew were allowed to
get into the area this area is has been
drawn by the Israel military as a a
combat zone and we've seen in the past
many of the Convoy trucks were shot at
directly many of the aid Seekers who
were approaching the area to get aid
supplies of food water other Sur were
killed at that particular uh area the
Kuwaiti traffic circle the injuries and
the person that was pronounced it were
all transferred to Ali Baptist hospital
that's at Gaza Square in the central
part of Gaza a city a reminder this is
not the first time it happened
repeatedly just last week one Aid worker
coordinating the Belgium Agency for
development humanitarian Aid in Gaza was
killed in his in the house he was
Sheltering in along with other people uh
inside the house itself and just all
viewers know that the buzzing sound that
they can hear above you as you're
talking to me hany is not your
microphone it's the ongoing Israeli
drones which monitor the area uh and
decide when and help the Israeli
military Target uh those that they might
want to uh hurt uh in the Gaza Strip but
let's just move on to um other trucks
that have been able to enter the Gaza
Strip uh today from crossings that had
been
closed yes well uh right after October
7th the Israeli military announced total
Siege on the Gaza Strip and by total
Siege we means they completely cut off
from the rest of the the world know no
uh no land Crossing was open and it
remained virtually closed till this
moment until the past couple hours and
within the past few days the Israeli
military announced a plan of reopening
the a crossing that's the northern part
of the Gaza Strip it's one of other five
landed Crossing including ra crossing
here in the southern part of the Gaza
Strip now working at uh a allowing
humanitarian and operating areas to
Crossing hasn't been an easy task not
only because of the ongoing restrictions
and obstruction of of AD Flo to theast
but the ongoing blockade by settlers who
are running these protest on daily basis
of preventing ad trucks from entering
the Gaza STP but what seems to be
happening today and that is consistent
with the American uh the American
demands of increasing the amount of it
into the Gaza Strip there despite the
the protest at the other side of the
crossing group of settlers who Tred to
prevent and they attacked in in fact two
Jordanian uh e convoys coming to the G
trip but eventually they managed to get
in and they reached to the destination
they were fill filled with flow some
food supplies water supplies and other
survival item today we're talking about
an increase in the number of these
trucks at about 30 but that's in the
face of the greater demands created by
this war the intense bombing campaign
the tragedies created on the ground the
the
virtually all difficulties that been uh
happening and the famine the enforced
dehydration and starvation those 30
trucks are not nearly enough not enough
for a couple families uh in the northern
part we're talking about close to
600,000 people been struggling on daily
basis with the ongoing famine that
includes acute shortage of almost every
Necessities a person needs to
survive mm for in Rafa thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
is